#  Mika's Portfolio

## My Covid Story
  Hello. my name is Shameika but Mika is easier to prounouce for most people. Although people often call me Micah. I think that is better than people staring at my name and not trying to say it at all. I am currently a student at Carnegie Mellon Univeristy studying for my Masters of Science in Public Policy Management. During the pandemic, I reduced my hours to part-time. As with everyone else the effects of the pandemic have been life shattering.  

  Right as I made it through security after a spring break and large festival in Miami, I ran straight to the flight desk to redirect me to Portland instead of Pittsburgh.  My decision to go home was made because Harvard announced they were closing school and I knew Carnegie Mellon would follow suit. I still remember the exuberant amount of drug sniffing dogs in the airport, people in Miami saying that more people die from the flu than COVID, and the lady in front of me being flagged to go through extra security. I am glad it wasnt me because the fear of the pandemic was setting in. While in Portland, the governor made the decision to enact a shelter in place protocol. AND on top of that many people were protesting in the streets. Some were rioting...it is Portland afterall. So on top of the shelter in place, we had a mandatory curfew at 8pm. Everyone's phone would give an emergency alert just to remind you to stay at home. Side note, this is the same FEMA alert messaging that my vote.gov team proposed to remind people to register vote...minus the siren. 
  
   My living situation back in  Portland wasnt the best, so I flew to Pittsburgh, rode the scenic Amtrak to Seattle with my entire life in tow. I paid for first class private cabin and the amount of service was immense. By the way, you can ship up to 1500 pounds of stuff on Amtrak as part of your luggage. Its cheaper than fed-ex and you get to send your bike for free. So much had been going on throughout the year especially the weeks leading up to my departure from Pittburgh. I remember walking around Pittsburgh my final days thinking it may be my last time in the city. Since it was moving season, my roomate told me to put my furnitur on buy nothing. It was amazing, people would pay me to remove my junk. As with everyone esle, I left the rest on the curb. Another amazing site, seeing people with rucks and vans load up on all the goodies left behind by college students. Also during my last neighborhood stroll, I went to my favorite hotdog place and sat outside, mask on to enjoy a beverage and ofcourse a hotdog. I lived in Shadyside close to the Negley Ave bus station. The part of the city that had people recently gentrfied and displaced many of the residents. It is interesting to note that the apartments are empty becasye "the rent is too damn high" and Pittsburgh is in more trouble since many students will not return in the fall. Instead the developers could have redeigned the area to be more cultrally influenced. More on that some other time. 
   
   A dear friend helped me back roughly 10 boxes to the Amtrak station. And an uber driver helped me with the rest. Im too embarassed to say the total number, but I almost maxed out on weigh. That was one of my only times riding in uber since the pandemic and I tipped him $50. The train steward took care of me and helped me watch my stuff. I met the conductor...about my age in his 30s covered in tattoos with a hipster beard. I was exhausted and my train wasnt schedule to leave until past mindnight. I had to tape my eyes open to stay awake. I wasnt really a coffee drinker until this pandemic. As soon as I was secure in my cabin, the sound of the train horn and the train rocked me to sleep. I think that was my best sleep ever. Next I arrive in Chicago Union Station. Myabe I am a fan of trains. They first class lounge is incredible with nice showers and free sopa, lotios, towels, etc. I was the only person under 60 in the lounge, but I know the secrets of the wise. For instance, a widow on a cruise told me that the most beautiful crusies are in Alaska. She put me up on game telling me that cruises are the cheasest way to live (re-all inclusive). Speaking of which, some 70 year old man had too much fun on the train. Recall that you are allowed to bring your own liquor etc on trains. He vomitted all over his area and completely embarassed his wife. Thats when I decided to walk around downtown a bit. I went to Millenium Park. It was open but highly regulated due to COVID. No one was allowed near the bean and they checked your temperature before allowing you to enter the park. Ofocurse I had a hotdog and enjoyed my own private picnic with views of the bean from afar. 
   
   Back on the train, I watched Rio and some other movies I downloaded. FYI Rio is a great movie, go watch it now. We stopped in Minot ND and suprisingly it was cute and quaint and on the verge of being hip. Recently I met the Commerce Commisoner of the State and he spoke about their efforts to attact young people. But..North Dakota??? I think the train was a total of 4 days but I had breakfast, lunch and dinner catered to me by the steawrdist and pretty much had little interaction with anyone else on the train. Surppsingly, many passengers. Since I had so much crap, I needed extra help once I arrived in Seattle. Nonetheless, I like it here and plan to make it my home. Espcially since I was able to secure a government job working for the state. 


## About Me

I chose to study policy after working as engineer because they made the mistake of sending me to Malawi on a "marketing" trip. We were delivering tablets...but our hotel barely had electricity or running water. And that was the nicest they had to offer. Many restaurant would have to make your food live because no electricity meant no refrigeration. No refrigeration means no medicine. I remember one of the residents mentioning how no one educated them about sex or HIV. The somehow have cell phones with slow conenctivity. But no produce or basic neccecities. (Take a break to sing Bear Neccesities form Jungle Book. Which recently added an apology before the start of the movie apologizing for the racism. Dont beleive me, its on Disney plus) The disparities of people within their own communities not being able to be self sufficient ignited a passion in me to understand why and what can be down to fix it. I want to work for the department of commerce to help local business recovery. With a focus on supply chains and how the money from the comunity can be earned within the community and shops support the community. For example the gentrified unusable development in Shady Side couldve incorporated some of the black cultural into the designs. And tried to cater to the current residents needs instead of kicking them out. Its as if they didnt do a cost benefit analysis. Maybe I will go into real estate development instead of commerce. Or something like that. 

My purpose for taking the course is to be able to find and gather data (data focused python helped), but also be able to use that information to make my case. In other words I want to be able to tell stories with data. For example, I would like to use data to explain to politicians an alternative to displacing people or ways to help marganilzed communities better themselves through local job creation. In particular, I'd like to portray inspirational and moving stories that explain why commuintiies are better off when they are self sufficient. 

Mind the typos, this is what happens whenI dont have spell check. 

## My Visualizations

[King County COVID Data](kingcountycovid.md)

[Government Debt Data](/govdebt.md)

[Racial Wealth Disparities](kingcountycovid.md)

https://msannslee.github.io/portfolio
